#summary This page is a draft way to setup OpenVolunteer on an apache2 web server by using mod_python.
#labels Phase-Deploy,Phase-Design,Featured
#sidebar HowTo install

<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

= Introduction =
This page is a draft way to setup !OpenVolunteer on an apache2 web server by using mod_python. It describes the prerequisite of setup, configuration of application and configuration of web server.

There is no instruction to setup Django, but you can found more details for this step in  [http://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/intro/install/ this page] on the official django web site.

= Get openvolunteer =
== Prerequisites ==
 * Python v2.5
  * _[http://www.python.org/download/releases/2.5.4/ Download Python v2.5]_
 * Django v1.0 installation *with admin interface*, *authentication* and *static file access* enabled
  * _[http://www.djangoproject.com/download/1.0/tarball/ Download Django_v1.0]_
  * _[http://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/intro/install/ Setup documentation]_
  * _[http://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/ref/contrib/admin/#ref-contrib-admin HowTo enable admin interface]_
  * _[http://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/ref/settings/?from=olddocs#media-root HowTo configure static file access]_
  * _[http://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/auth/#topics-auth HowTo setup authentication]_
 * Vobject 0.8.1b
  * _[http://vobject.skyhouseconsulting.com/vobject-0.8.1b.tar.gz Download vobject 0.8.1b]_
  * Run {{{ python setup.py install }}} to setup

== Install it ==
 # Make a Directory for your Django projects:
  {{{eg: mkdir ~/django/projects; cd ~/django/projects}}}
 # Create a project :
  _debian_ :
  {{{django-admin startproject MyProject}}}
 # Get the last tarball of !OpenVolunteer in [http://openvolunteer.googlecode.com/files/openvolunteer_v0.1.tar.gz download section]
 # Extract the content of this tarball by:
  {{{ tar -xzf openvolunteer_v0.1.tar.gz }}}
 # Move openvolunteer folder to django project folder by:
  {{{ mv openvolunteer /path/to/MyProject/ }}}
 # In the dir MyProject settings file (settings.py), add {{{ 'openvoluteer', }}} to  {{{ INSTALLED_APPS }}}.
 # In the project url file (urls.py), add the following line to urlpatterns (according to project name):
  {{{ (r'^openvolunteer/', include('MyProject.openvolunteer.urls')), }}}

== Configure it ==
 # In {{{ openvolunteer }}} folder, open the {{{ ovsettings.py }}} file.
 # Change the folowing line according to the used file system path:
  {{{ APPLICATION_PATH = "/path/to/MyProject/openvolunteer" }}}
 # In: 
  # {{{ admin.py }}}
  # {{{ urls.py }}}
  # {{{ views.py }}}
 change:
  {{{ from demo.openvolunteer.models import * }}}
 to:
  {{{ from MyProject.openvolunteer.models import * }}}

== Test it ==
 # From project folder, launch the django development server:
  {{{ python manage.py runserver }}}
 # Open the http://127.0.0.1:8000/openvolunteer/ link in a web browser.

= Deployment =
== Apache Prerequisites ==
_Not yet available. Please consider the draft status of this page..._
== Configuration ==
_Not yet available. Please consider the draft status of this page..._